1. What is an API and how does it work?
  API (Application Programming Interface) allows communication between two software applications. It defines a set of rules for how the applications can interact.
  Example: A weather app might use an API to get weather data from a server.
  APIs can be RESTful or SOAP. RESTful APIs are most common, relying on HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE for interaction.

2. Do you know REST API?
  REST (Representational State Transfer) is a set of architectural principles for designing networked applications. REST APIs use HTTP requests for communication.
  It is stateless, meaning each call from the client contains all necessary data for the server to understand and process the request.


3. Do you know FastAPI? Explain FastAPI.
  FastAPI is a modern web framework for building APIs with Python 3.7+ based on standard Python-type hints.
  It is designed for high performance and fast development. It supports asynchronous request handling, making it more efficient in handling a large number of requests.
  Example: It’s useful for building APIs that are machine learning-based.


4. What is GET, POST, and GET Request?
  GET is used to request data from a server.
  POST is used to send data to the server, like submitting a form or uploading a file.
  GET requests are safe and idempotent, while POST requests may change the state of the server.


5. Why do we need Activation functions in Neural Networks (NN)?
  Activation functions introduce non-linearity into the network, allowing it to learn complex patterns in the data.
  Without them, the neural network would behave like a linear model, which limits its learning capacity.


6. How does a Neural Network work?
  A Neural Network consists of layers of interconnected neurons, where each neuron processes inputs, applies weights, and passes the result through an activation function.
  The network learns by adjusting weights based on the error in predictions (via backpropagation) and minimizing this error through an optimization process like gradient descent.


7. How do you do Summarization without any models?
  Rule-based methods for text summarization include extracting important sentences based on keyword frequency, sentence position, or using statistical approaches like Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF).


8. Explain Docker.
  Docker is a platform that packages applications and their dependencies into containers, ensuring that they run consistently in different environments.
  Containers isolate the application, making it lightweight and efficient compared to virtual machines


9. How do you use Docker and Kubernetes?
  Docker is used to containerize applications.
  Kubernetes orchestrates containers by managing their deployment, scaling, and networking across clusters of machines.


10. How do you containerize with Docker?
    Create a Dockerfile that defines the application and its dependencies.
    Build a Docker image using the docker build command.
    Run a container from the image using docker run.


11. What is Horizontal and Vertical scaling in Kubernetes?
    Horizontal scaling adds more instances of services (e.g., more containers).
    Vertical scaling increases the resources (CPU, RAM) of existing services.


12. Find missing value in the range of 1 to 10.

    # Define the list with a missing number
    given_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10]
    
    # Calculate the expected sum of numbers from 1 to 10
    expected_sum = sum(range(1, 11))
    
    # Calculate the actual sum of the numbers in the given list
    actual_sum = sum(given_list)
    
    # The missing number is the difference between the expected sum and the actual sum
    missing_value = expected_sum - actual_sum
    
    # Print the missing number
    print(f"The missing value is: {missing_value}")

12. Finding the missing value in the range of 1 to 10
      # Define the list with a missing number
      given_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10]
      
      # Calculate the expected sum of numbers from 1 to 10
      expected_sum = sum(range(1, 11))
      
      # Calculate the actual sum of the numbers in the given list
      actual_sum = sum(given_list)
      
      # The missing number is the difference between the expected sum and the actual sum
      missing_value = expected_sum - actual_sum
      
      # Print the missing number
      print(f"The missing value is: {missing_value}")

13. List comprehension to get a list of even numbers from original_list
    original_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
    
    # List comprehension to get even numbers
    even_numbers = [x for x in original_list if x % 2 == 0]
    
    # Print the list of even numbers
    print(f"Even numbers: {even_numbers}")

14. List comprehension to replace even numbers with "even" and odd numbers with "odd"
    result = ["even" if x % 2 == 0 else "odd" for x in original_list]
    
    # Print the result
    print(f"Even/Odd replacement: {result}")


15. How does an activation function introduce non-linearity in NN?
    Activation functions like ReLU or Sigmoid map input values to non-linear outputs, allowing the network to learn complex data patterns that aren't possible with linear transformations.


16. How do Activation functions squeeze inputs?
    Activation functions, like Sigmoid and tanh, compress input values into a smaller range (e.g., sigmoid compresses between 0 and 1), making them manageable for neural networks.


17. Time complexity of searching in List, Set, and Dictionary:
    List: O(n) because it requires a linear search.
    Set/Dictionary: O(1) because they use hashing.


18. What is the time complexity of the program you have written?
    You should analyze your code for loops and recursive calls. For example, a loop over n items will have O(n) time complexity.

19. What is Sync and Async in Python?
    Synchronous operations block the program until the task is completed.
    Asynchronous allows the program to continue running other tasks while waiting for another task to complete, often managed with the async and await keywords.


20. What are the different databases you have worked with?
    Example: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, and GCP BigQuery.


21. Difference between SQL and MongoDB?
    SQL databases (relational) store data in structured tables with predefined schemas.
    MongoDB (NoSQL) stores data in flexible JSON-like documents, suitable for unstructured or semi-structured data.


22. Why does Set and Dict take less time to search while List takes O(n)?
    Set and Dictionary use hash tables, which allow for constant-time lookups, while List requires a linear search through its elements.


23. Why do we use Kubernetes?
    Kubernetes automates the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications across clusters of machines.


24. Why do we need Kubeflow, and what is its use?
    Kubeflow is a platform for deploying, managing, and scaling machine learning workflows on Kubernetes. It makes it easier to run machine learning tasks in distributed environments.


25. How do Docker, Kubernetes, and Kubeflow come into play when building a product?
    Docker packages the application.
    Kubernetes handles the deployment and scaling.
    Kubeflow is used to manage the ML pipeline, allowing for experimentation, model training, and serving.


26. What are Generators in Python?
    Generators are functions that yield values one at a time, allowing for lazy evaluation. This is efficient for handling large datasets or streams of data.


27. What is CI/CD pipeline?
    CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) is a set of practices that automatically build, test, and deploy code changes, ensuring quick delivery and reliable software.


28. What is Git?
    Git is a version control system that tracks changes in the codebase, allowing multiple developers to collaborate


29. What is Git rebase?
    Git rebase integrates changes from one branch into another by applying commits on top of the current branch, keeping the history linear and clean.


30. What is Regularization, and why do we use it?
    Regularization adds a penalty to the loss function to reduce overfitting. It helps the model generalize better to unseen data.
    Common methods include L1 (Lasso) and L2 (Ridge) regularization.


31. Bubble problem:
    The bubble reduces to half its size every 2 seconds.
    To reduce to 1/8th its size (2^3), it takes 6 seconds (3 intervals of 2 seconds each).

32. Egg problem (breaking floors):
    This problem is a variation of the egg drop puzzle. You could use a binary search approach to minimize the number of attempts to find the critical floor.
